As Jehovah’s servants,
nothing brings us greater joy
than worshipping the true God.
But we are also human.
This means that from time to time,
any of us can—and probably will—
experience unsettling moments,
times when we question our worth.
For example,
have you ever wondered
about your true value in Jehovah’s eyes?
Have you ever experienced moments of anxiety
about your place in his organization?
Or have you struggled
with feelings of worthlessness?
Such thoughts can erode our joy,
and we might even begin to doubt
our personal worth to Jehovah.
If that has happened to you,
you’re not alone.
Centuries ago,
the writer of Psalm 94 revealed
that he too was overwhelmed by anxieties.
Let’s read it together.
At Psalm 94:19,
the writer is addressing Jehovah:
“When anxieties overwhelmed me,
you comforted and soothed me.”
Now, notice the footnote on verse 19:
“disquieting thoughts.”
These can arise from factors such as guilt
over the fact that we cannot do more
in the ministry
or in the congregation;
fear of the future, of being separated
from the ones we know and love;
and despair from being overlooked,
feeling that we don’t really matter.
“Disquieting thoughts” are real
and can overwhelm us at times.
They can rob us of our inner peace
and our sleep.
And if we’re not careful,
they can even stifle our prayers,
damaging our relationship with Jehovah.
Nothing would make Satan happier.
We never want that to happen, especially now,
since this old world is so near to closing.
So, what can help us to soothe
these disquieting thoughts?
In this month’s broadcast,
we will find the answer
in a heartwarming prophecy.
We hope that this inspired message
will provide a strong Scriptural basis
to help you
to dispel any feelings of inadequacy.
Which prophecy?
Well, please open your Bible
to Isaiah chapter 56.
Here we read
of one of the most touching expressions
of Jehovah’s appreciation
for two groups of people.
Both groups wanted to serve Jehovah,
but under the Mosaic Law, they were limited
or even disqualified from fully participating
in Jehovah’s arrangement for pure worship.
Who were they?
Let’s read Isaiah 56:3:
“The foreigner who joins himself to Jehovah
“should not say,
“‘Jehovah will surely separate me
“from his people.’
“And the eunuch should not say, ‘Look!
I am a dried-up tree.’”
Did you notice the two groups?
Foreigners, or non-Israelites,
and eunuchs, men who physically
could not produce children.
They faced very difficult
and possibly disheartening circumstances.
During Isaiah’s time,
uncircumcised foreigners
were allowed to live in Israel,
but they had no permanent ties
with the nation.
Because of their status,
they could not eat the Passover meal,
and as a protection,
the Israelites were not to associate closely
with them.
But many foreigners came to love Jehovah,
converted to pure worship,
and served Jehovah alongside his people.
They were called proselytes.
Nevertheless, even they could not fully
become part of the nation of Israel.
How would you feel
if you were a foreigner alive at that time?
Your biggest fear would be
getting cut off from God’s people.
Might you have disquieting thoughts at times?
Consider the second group.
Isaiah mentioned eunuchs.
These were men
who had their reproductive organs removed.
It was the custom of Eastern pagan nations
to make eunuchs out of some
of the male children taken captive in war
and then assign them
to serve as trusted officials
in royal courts or in other settings.
It appears that during the days of Isaiah,
some of these Gentile eunuchs
learned about Jehovah, came to love him,
and decided to align themselves
with Jehovah’s people.
These eunuchs enjoyed a measure
of acceptance among Jehovah’s people,
and they had the privilege
of worshipping Jehovah.
However, because they were eunuchs,
they could not become fully-fledged members
of the congregation of Israel.
Plus, at that time and in that culture,
they suffered great humiliation
in not being able to father children.
Do you think they experienced
disquieting thoughts at times?
We know they did.
But Isaiah reveals something significant
about this group.
Jehovah loved them!
In effect, Jehovah says to them:
“I know how you feel.
Now let me tell you how I feel about you.”
Let’s read Isaiah 56:4, 5:
“For this is what Jehovah says
to the eunuchs who keep my sabbaths
“and who choose what I delight in
and who hold fast to my covenant:
“‘I will give to them in my house
“‘and within my walls
“‘a monument and a name,
“‘something better than sons and daughters.
“‘An everlasting name I will give them,
one that will not perish.’”
I will give them
“something better than sons and daughters”
—“an everlasting name.”
Their physical limitations
did not diminish their value
in the eyes of our loving God.
Because of their whole-souled obedience
to him,
Jehovah would always remember them.
They would have an everlasting name,
“one that [would] not perish.”
Jehovah treasured these faithful ones so much
that he kept the memory of their service
“in [his] house and within [his] walls”
like “a monument,”
so as to cherish them daily.
Imagine how those eunuchs felt now,
knowing that their God
had something special reserved for them.
They knew Jehovah had heard their prayers.
They knew that their God
felt compassion for them.
All those disquieting thoughts
started to melt away.
Those comforting words
started to heal their broken spirit.
But why did Jehovah make these promises
to these two groups?
What did he see that others may not have?
We don’t have all the details,
but we do have some.
They are revealed to us much later in time,
and they give us valuable clues.
For example, in the book of Nehemiah,
we are introduced to two foreigners
who were living among God’s people.
There’s a significant detail
about their names.
Nehemiah 3:7 tells us that they were
“Melatiah the Gibeonite
and Jadon the Meronothite,”
who were of foreign descent.
Yet, their names tell a different story.
What do they mean?
Melatiah means “Jah Has Provided Escape.”
Jadon means “Jehovah Has Given Ear.”
How did they get those names?
These men were likely born in Babylon,
children of foreigners
who joined in true worship in Israel
and who were later taken captive
in 607 B.C.E.
The parents of these men
were not natural Israelites.
However, the names they chose
for their children
reflected their devotion and love
for Jehovah’s name.
And the fact
that these sons of non-Israelites
would want to share in rebuilding Jerusalem
shows how they themselves loved Jehovah.
How did Jehovah feel about these foreigners?
Notice his prophetic words as we continue on
at Isaiah 56:6, 7:
“As for the foreigners who join themselves
to Jehovah to minister to him,
“to love the name of Jehovah
and to be his servants,
“all those who keep the Sabbath
and do not profane it
“and who hold fast to my covenant,
I will also bring them
“to my holy mountain and make them rejoice
“inside my house of prayer.
“Their whole burnt offerings
“and their sacrifices
“will be accepted on my altar.
“For my house will be called
a house of prayer for all the peoples.”
Jehovah noticed that these foreigners
faithfully observed the laws of a covenant
that they could never be fully a part of.
In verses 6 and 7,
Jehovah was, in effect,
inviting them into his home
—“a house of prayer for all the peoples”—
Jew and foreigner alike.
Hearing these words
must have lifted their heavy hearts.
But Jehovah did more than just tell them
how much he valued them.
He showed them.
How?
Among the foreigners
who returned to the ruins of Jerusalem
in 537 B.C.E.
were a particular group of foreigners
who had become proselytes.
And they included descendants
of the Gibeonites,
a nation that had joined themselves to Israel
and served as “gatherers of wood
and drawers of water
for the assembly and for Jehovah’s altar.”
These descendants of the Gibeonites
had spent decades as captives in Babylon
for crimes they did not commit.
They had no land inheritance back in Israel;
they were servants.
Yet, they traveled back to Israel
and helped rebuild the temple
and the walls of Jerusalem.
What motivated them?
They loved Jehovah.
These descendants of Gibeon
expected nothing in return for their service,
but they did receive
something quite unexpected.
After the Israelites received
their apportioned land,
this group called the Nethinim,
who did not have a land inheritance,
were assigned a place to live.
Where would they be placed?
Outside the city?
In a slum?
In some abandoned part
of forgotten Jerusalem?
No!
The Bible tells us
that they were assigned to live in Ophel.
Now take a look at the map,
and see for yourself where Ophel is located
—right next to the temple!
Jehovah made these humble
“gatherers of wood” his neighbors.
This underscores how much Jehovah loved
and cherished these faithful foreigners
who, motivated by love,
did all they could to share in his worship.
What’s the lesson?
Both the eunuchs and the foreigners
were limited
in what they could do in God’s service.
From a human standpoint,
they were probably considered
less than ordinary, nothing special;
perhaps some even considered them outcasts.
That is not how Jehovah viewed them.
He knew each one by name,
he listened to their prayers,
and he viewed each individual
as a precious gem.
Where man sees the ordinary,
our heavenly Father sees the extraordinary.
To illustrate:
What do you see here?
If you are thinking sand, you are right.
Sand is one of the most common substances
on the earth.
To us, it typically looks bland and ordinary,
each particle identical to the next
—no color, no sparkle.
You never see someone show off
a sand necklace or bracelet.
But what happens if you look at sand
under the microscope?
To the naked eye, all sand looks the same
and is pretty dull.
But magnified a hundredfold or more,
each individual grain of sand
reveals distinct beauty.
We see parts of shells and crystals,
all contrasting in shapes and colors.
There is a treasure trove
in a handful of sand.
That is how Jehovah sees each of you.
Just as he saw
the faithful foreigners and eunuchs
for the precious gems that they were,
he sees you too.
Yes, you who may be restricted by age,
health, physical stamina, emotions,
or family responsibilities
from doing as much
in some spiritual activities
as you would like to.
But those limitations do not define you.
Remember that in God’s eyes,
your worth as a person
is not measured by how much you do
but, rather, how much you try.
With eternity and perfection in view,
Jehovah chooses to see, not your limitations,
but your potential.
When you serve Jehovah whole-souled
despite limited circumstances,
you sparkle in his eyes.
And because you shine so brightly
in Jehovah’s heart,
he will always help you.
He will always cherish you.
Do you remember
the faithful psalmist who wrote
about being overwhelmed
by disquieting thoughts
at Psalm 94:19?
In the very next line, he tells Jehovah:
“You comforted and soothed me.”
By the way, who wrote that psalm?
We don’t know his name, but Jehovah does.
And he carefully preserved
that unknown writer’s words
for thousands of years in the Bible.
Like the psalmist, the foreigner, the eunuch
—no matter the circumstances—
when you humbly serve Jehovah,
when you try your best,
your work is never fruitless.
An everlasting name
is reserved for each of you
because your heavenly Father cherishes you.